README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/meilisearch/image/upload/v1587402338/SDKs/meilisearch_php.svg" alt="MeiliSearch-PHP" width="200" height="200" />
</p>

<h1 align="center">MeiliSearch PHP</h1>

<h4 align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/meilisearch/MeiliSearch">MeiliSearch</a> |
  <a href="https://www.meilisearch.com">Website</a> |
  <a href="https://blog.meilisearch.com">Blog</a> |
  <a href="https://twitter.com/meilisearch">Twitter</a> |
  <a href="https://docs.meilisearch.com">Documentation</a> |
  <a href="https://docs.meilisearch.com/faq">FAQ</a>
</h4>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://packagist.org/packages/meilisearch/meilisearch-php"><img src="https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/meilisearch/meilisearch-php" alt="Latest Stable Version"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch-php/actions"><img src="https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch-php/workflows/Tests/badge.svg" alt="Test"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch-php/blob/master/LICENSE"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-informational" alt="License"></a>
  <a href="https://slack.meilisearch.com"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/slack-MeiliSearch-blue.svg?logo=slack" alt="Slack"></a>
</p>

<p align="center">⚡ Lightning Fast, Ultra Relevant, and Typo-Tolerant Search Engine MeiliSearch client written in PHP</p>

**MeiliSearch PHP** is a client for **MeiliSearch** written in PHP. **MeiliSearch** is a powerful, fast, open-source, easy to use and deploy search engine. Both searching and indexing are highly customizable. Features such as typo-tolerance, filters, and synonyms are provided out-of-the-box.

## Table of Contents <!-- omit in toc -->

- [🔧 Installation](#-installation)
- [🚀 Getting started](#-getting-started)
- [🤖 Compatibility with MeiliSearch](#-compatibility-with-meilisearch)
- [🎬 Examples](#-examples)
  - [Indexes](#indexes)
  - [Documents](#documents)
  - [Update status](#update-status)
  - [Search](#search)
- [🧰 Replace HTTP client](#-replace-http-client)
- [⚙️ Development Workflow and Contributing](#️-development-workflow-and-contributing)

## 🔧 Installation

With composer:

```bash
$ composer require meilisearch/meilisearch-php
```

### Run MeiliSearch <!-- omit in toc -->

There are many easy ways to [download and run a MeiliSearch instance](https://docs.meilisearch.com/guides/advanced_guides/installation.html#download-and-launch).

For example, if you use Docker:
```bash
$ docker run -it --rm -p 7700:7700 getmeili/meilisearch:latest ./meilisearch --master-key=masterKey
```

NB: you can also download MeiliSearch from **Homebrew** or **APT**.

## 🚀 Getting started

#### Add documents <!-- omit in toc -->

```php
<?php

require_once __DIR__ . '/vendor/autoload.php';

use MeiliSearch\Client;

$client = new Client('http://127.0.0.1:7700', 'masterKey');
$index = $client->createIndex('books'); // If your index does not exist
$index = $client->getIndex('books');    // If you already created your index

$documents = [
    ['book_id' => 123,  'title' => 'Pride and Prejudice', 'author' => 'Jane Austen'],
    ['book_id' => 456,  'title' => 'Le Petit Prince', 'author' => 'Antoine de Saint-Exupéry'],
    ['book_id' => 1,    'title' => 'Alice In Wonderland', 'author' => 'Lewis Carroll'],
    ['book_id' => 1344, 'title' => 'The Hobbit', 'author' => 'J. R. R. Tolkien'],
    ['book_id' => 4,    'title' => 'Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince', 'author' => 'J. K. Rowling'],
    ['book_id' => 42,   'title' => 'The Hitchhiker\'s Guide to the Galaxy', 'author' => 'Douglas Adams, Eoin Colfer, Thomas Tidholm'],
];

$index->addDocuments($documents); // => { "updateId": 0 }
```

With the `updateId`, you can check the status (`processed` or `failed`) of your documents addition thanks to this [method](#update-status).


#### Search in index <!-- omit in toc -->

```php
// MeiliSearch is typo-tolerant:
print_r($index->search('harry pottre'));
```
Output:
```php
Array
(
    [hits] => Array
        (
            [0] => Array
                (
                    [id] => 4
                    [title] => Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
                )

        )

    [offset] => 0
    [limit] => 20
    [processingTimeMs] => 1
    [query] => harry pottre
)
```

## 🤖 Compatibility with MeiliSearch

This package is compatible with the following MeiliSearch versions:
- `v0.12.X`
- `v0.11.X`

## 🎬 Examples

All HTTP routes of MeiliSearch are accessible via methods in this SDK.</br>
You can check out [the API documentation](https://docs.meilisearch.com/references/).

### Indexes

#### Create an index <!-- omit in toc -->

```php
// Create an index
$index = $client->createIndex('books');
// Create an index and give the primary-key
$index = $client->createIndex(
    'books',
    ['primaryKey' => 'book_id']
);
```

#### Get an index or create it if it doesn't exist <!-- omit in toc -->
```php
// Get or create an index
$index = $client->getOrCreateIndex('books');
// Get or create an index and give the primary-key
$index = $client->getOrCreateIndex(
    'books',
    ['primaryKey' => 'book_id']
);
```

#### Get an index or create it if it doesn't exist <!-- omit in toc -->
```php
// Get or create an index
$index = $client->getOrCreateIndex('books');
// Get or create an index and give the primary-key
$index = $client->getOrCreateIndex(
    'books',
    ['primaryKey' => 'book_id']
);
```

#### List all indexes <!-- omit in toc -->

```php
$client->getAllIndexes();
```

#### Get an index object <!-- omit in toc -->

```php
$client->getIndex('books');
```

### Documents

#### Fetch documents <!-- omit in toc -->

```php
// Get one document
$index->getDocument(123);
// Get documents by batch
$index->getDocuments(['offset' => 10 , 'limit' => 20]);
```

#### Add documents <!-- omit in toc -->

```php
$index->addDocuments([['book_id' => 2, 'title' => 'Madame Bovary']])
```

Response:
```json
{
    "updateId": 1
}
```
With this `updateId` you can track your [operation update](#update-status).

#### Delete documents <!-- omit in toc -->

```php
// Delete one document
$index->deleteDocument(2);
// Delete several documents
$index->deleteDocuments([1, 42]);
// Delete all documents /!\
$index->deleteAllDocuments();
```

### Update status

```php
// Get one update status
// Parameter: the updateId got after an asynchronous request (e.g. documents addition)
$index->getUpdateStatus(1);
// Get all update satus
$index->getAllUpdateStatus();
```

### Search

#### Basic search <!-- omit in toc -->

```php
$index->search('prince');
```

```json
{
    "hits": [
        {
            "book_id": 456,
            "title": "Le Petit Prince"
        },
        {
            "book_id": 4,
            "title": "Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince"
        }
    ],
    "offset": 0,
    "limit": 20,
    "processingTimeMs": 13,
    "query": "prince"
}
```

#### Custom search <!-- omit in toc -->

All the supported options are described in [this documentation section](https://docs.meilisearch.com/references/search.html#search-in-an-index).

```php
$index->search('prince', ['limit' => 1]);
```

```json
{
    "hits": [
        {
            "book_id": 456,
            "title": "Le Petit Prince"
        }
    ],
    "offset": 0,
    "limit": 1,
    "processingTimeMs": 10,
    "query": "prince"
}
```

With limit and filter, both single and double quotes are supported.
```php
// Enclosing with double quotes
$index->search('prince', ['limit' => 2, 'filters' => "title = 'Le Petit Prince' OR author = 'J. R. R. Tolkien'"]);

// Enclosing with single quotes
$index->search('hobbit', ['limit' => 2, 'filters' => 'title = "The Hitchhiker\'s Guide to the Galaxy" OR author = "J. R. R. Tolkien"']);
```

## 🧰 Replace HTTP client

By default [Guzzle](http://docs.guzzlephp.org/en/6.5/) is used for all HTTP requests.<br>
But you can replace the used HTTP client with any [PSR-18](https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-18/) compatible client.<br>
A list with compatible HTTP clients and client adapters can be found at [php-http.org](http://docs.php-http.org/en/latest/clients.html).

For example, if you want to use the [Symfony HttpClient](https://symfony.com/doc/current/components/http_client.html),
use the following code:

```bash
$ composer require symfony/http-client
$ composer require nyholm/psr7
```

```php
use Symfony\Component\HttpClient\HttplugClient;
use MeiliSearch\Client;

$httpClient = new HttplugClient();
$client = new Client('http://127.0.0.1:7700', 'masterKey', $httpClient);
```

## ⚙️ Development Workflow and Contributing

Any new contribution is more than welcome in this project!

If you want to know more about the development workflow or want to contribute, please visit our [contributing guidelines](/CONTRIBUTING.md) for detailed instructions!

<hr>

**MeiliSearch** provides and maintains many **SDKs and Integration tools** like this one. We want to provide everyone with an **amazing search experience for any kind of project**. If you want to contribute, make suggestions, or just know what's going on right now, visit us in the [integration-guides](https://github.com/meilisearch/integration-guides) repository.

Commit message:

Update docker instructions in README

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://res.cloudinary.com/meilisearch/image/upload/v1587402338/SDKs/meilisearch_php.svg" alt="MeiliSearch-PHP" width="200" height="200" />
</p>

<h1 align="center">MeiliSearch PHP</h1>

<h4 align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/meilisearch/MeiliSearch">MeiliSearch</a> |
  <a href="https://www.meilisearch.com">Website</a> |
  <a href="https://blog.meilisearch.com">Blog</a> |
  <a href="https://twitter.com/meilisearch">Twitter</a> |
  <a href="https://docs.meilisearch.com">Documentation</a> |
  <a href="https://docs.meilisearch.com/faq">FAQ</a>
</h4>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://packagist.org/packages/meilisearch/meilisearch-php"><img src="https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/meilisearch/meilisearch-php" alt="Latest Stable Version"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch-php/actions"><img src="https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch-php/workflows/Tests/badge.svg" alt="Test"></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch-php/blob/master/LICENSE"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-informational" alt="License"></a>
  <a href="https://slack.meilisearch.com"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/slack-MeiliSearch-blue.svg?logo=slack" alt="Slack"></a>
</p>

<p align="center">⚡ Lightning Fast, Ultra Relevant, and Typo-Tolerant Search Engine MeiliSearch client written in PHP</p>

**MeiliSearch PHP** is a client for **MeiliSearch** written in PHP. **MeiliSearch** is a powerful, fast, open-source, easy to use and deploy search engine. Both searching and indexing are highly customizable. Features such as typo-tolerance, filters, and synonyms are provided out-of-the-box.

## Table of Contents <!-- omit in toc -->

- [🔧 Installation](#-installation)
- [🚀 Getting started](#-getting-started)
- [🤖 Compatibility with MeiliSearch](#-compatibility-with-meilisearch)
- [🎬 Examples](#-examples)
  - [Indexes](#indexes)
  - [Documents](#documents)
  - [Update status](#update-status)
  - [Search](#search)
- [🧰 Replace HTTP client](#-replace-http-client)
- [⚙️ Development Workflow and Contributing](#️-development-workflow-and-contributing)

## 🔧 Installation

With composer:

```bash
$ composer require meilisearch/meilisearch-php
```

### Run MeiliSearch <!-- omit in toc -->

There are many easy ways to [download and run a MeiliSearch instance](https://docs.meilisearch.com/guides/advanced_guides/installation.html#download-and-launch).

For example, if you use Docker:
```bash
$ docker pull getmeili/meilisearch:latest # Fetch the latest version of MeiliSearch image from Docker Hub
$ docker run -it --rm -p 7700:7700 getmeili/meilisearch:latest ./meilisearch --master-key=masterKey
```

NB: you can also download MeiliSearch from **Homebrew** or **APT**.

## 🚀 Getting started

#### Add documents <!-- omit in toc -->

```php
<?php

require_once __DIR__ . '/vendor/autoload.php';

use MeiliSearch\Client;

$client = new Client('http://127.0.0.1:7700', 'masterKey');
$index = $client->createIndex('books'); // If your index does not exist
$index = $client->getIndex('books');    // If you already created your index

$documents = [
    ['book_id' => 123,  'title' => 'Pride and Prejudice', 'author' => 'Jane Austen'],
    ['book_id' => 456,  'title' => 'Le Petit Prince', 'author' => 'Antoine de Saint-Exupéry'],
    ['book_id' => 1,    'title' => 'Alice In Wonderland', 'author' => 'Lewis Carroll'],
    ['book_id' => 1344, 'title' => 'The Hobbit', 'author' => 'J. R. R. Tolkien'],
    ['book_id' => 4,    'title' => 'Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince', 'author' => 'J. K. Rowling'],
    ['book_id' => 42,   'title' => 'The Hitchhiker\'s Guide to the Galaxy', 'author' => 'Douglas Adams, Eoin Colfer, Thomas Tidholm'],
];

$index->addDocuments($documents); // => { "updateId": 0 }
```

With the `updateId`, you can check the status (`processed` or `failed`) of your documents addition thanks to this [method](#update-status).


#### Search in index <!-- omit in toc -->

```php
// MeiliSearch is typo-tolerant:
print_r($index->search('harry pottre'));
```
Output:
```php
Array
(
    [hits] => Array
        (
            [0] => Array
                (
                    [id] => 4
                    [title] => Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince
                )

        )

    [offset] => 0
    [limit] => 20
    [processingTimeMs] => 1
    [query] => harry pottre
)
```

## 🤖 Compatibility with MeiliSearch

This package is compatible with the following MeiliSearch versions:
- `v0.12.X`
- `v0.11.X`

## 🎬 Examples

All HTTP routes of MeiliSearch are accessible via methods in this SDK.</br>
You can check out [the API documentation](https://docs.meilisearch.com/references/).

### Indexes

#### Create an index <!-- omit in toc -->

```php
// Create an index
$index = $client->createIndex('books');
// Create an index and give the primary-key
$index = $client->createIndex(
    'books',
    ['primaryKey' => 'book_id']
);
```

#### Get an index or create it if it doesn't exist <!-- omit in toc -->
```php
// Get or create an index
$index = $client->getOrCreateIndex('books');
// Get or create an index and give the primary-key
$index = $client->getOrCreateIndex(
    'books',
    ['primaryKey' => 'book_id']
);
```

#### Get an index or create it if it doesn't exist <!-- omit in toc -->
```php
// Get or create an index
$index = $client->getOrCreateIndex('books');
// Get or create an index and give the primary-key
$index = $client->getOrCreateIndex(
    'books',
    ['primaryKey' => 'book_id']
);
```

#### List all indexes <!-- omit in toc -->

```php
$client->getAllIndexes();
```

#### Get an index object <!-- omit in toc -->

```php
$client->getIndex('books');
```

### Documents

#### Fetch documents <!-- omit in toc -->

```php
// Get one document
$index->getDocument(123);
// Get documents by batch
$index->getDocuments(['offset' => 10 , 'limit' => 20]);
```

#### Add documents <!-- omit in toc -->

```php
$index->addDocuments([['book_id' => 2, 'title' => 'Madame Bovary']])
```

Response:
```json
{
    "updateId": 1
}
```
With this `updateId` you can track your [operation update](#update-status).

#### Delete documents <!-- omit in toc -->

```php
// Delete one document
$index->deleteDocument(2);
// Delete several documents
$index->deleteDocuments([1, 42]);
// Delete all documents /!\
$index->deleteAllDocuments();
```

### Update status

```php
// Get one update status
// Parameter: the updateId got after an asynchronous request (e.g. documents addition)
$index->getUpdateStatus(1);
// Get all update satus
$index->getAllUpdateStatus();
```

### Search

#### Basic search <!-- omit in toc -->

```php
$index->search('prince');
```

```json
{
    "hits": [
        {
            "book_id": 456,
            "title": "Le Petit Prince"
        },
        {
            "book_id": 4,
            "title": "Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince"
        }
    ],
    "offset": 0,
    "limit": 20,
    "processingTimeMs": 13,
    "query": "prince"
}
```

#### Custom search <!-- omit in toc -->

All the supported options are described in [this documentation section](https://docs.meilisearch.com/references/search.html#search-in-an-index).

```php
$index->search('prince', ['limit' => 1]);
```

```json
{
    "hits": [
        {
            "book_id": 456,
            "title": "Le Petit Prince"
        }
    ],
    "offset": 0,
    "limit": 1,
    "processingTimeMs": 10,
    "query": "prince"
}
```

With limit and filter, both single and double quotes are supported.
```php
// Enclosing with double quotes
$index->search('prince', ['limit' => 2, 'filters' => "title = 'Le Petit Prince' OR author = 'J. R. R. Tolkien'"]);

// Enclosing with single quotes
$index->search('hobbit', ['limit' => 2, 'filters' => 'title = "The Hitchhiker\'s Guide to the Galaxy" OR author = "J. R. R. Tolkien"']);
```

## 🧰 Replace HTTP client

By default [Guzzle](http://docs.guzzlephp.org/en/6.5/) is used for all HTTP requests.<br>
But you can replace the used HTTP client with any [PSR-18](https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-18/) compatible client.<br>
A list with compatible HTTP clients and client adapters can be found at [php-http.org](http://docs.php-http.org/en/latest/clients.html).

For example, if you want to use the [Symfony HttpClient](https://symfony.com/doc/current/components/http_client.html),
use the following code:

```bash
$ composer require symfony/http-client
$ composer require nyholm/psr7
```

```php
use Symfony\Component\HttpClient\HttplugClient;
use MeiliSearch\Client;

$httpClient = new HttplugClient();
$client = new Client('http://127.0.0.1:7700', 'masterKey', $httpClient);
```

## ⚙️ Development Workflow and Contributing

Any new contribution is more than welcome in this project!

If you want to know more about the development workflow or want to contribute, please visit our [contributing guidelines](/CONTRIBUTING.md) for detailed instructions!

<hr>

**MeiliSearch** provides and maintains many **SDKs and Integration tools** like this one. We want to provide everyone with an **amazing search experience for any kind of project**. If you want to contribute, make suggestions, or just know what's going on right now, visit us in the [integration-guides](https://github.com/meilisearch/integration-guides) repository.
